[AIR WHOOSHING]
[AUDIO LOGO]
>> There is nothing like
watching the light go out
of someone you love.
It's a powerless
helpless feeling.
And over 25 years ago, I watched
the light and life go out
of my brother, who suffered
from pain, fatigue, vertigo,
and overall lifelessness.
Before he experienced
this, he was full of life.
He was full of laughter.
His passion was
art, and he loved
to express his love
for the community
through many different
types of art,
but he was unable to do what
he loved the most because he
was so sick, debilitated,
and stayed constantly in bed.
He tried everything he
could, nothing worked.
He went outside the country.
He tried alternative.
He tried integrative--
he tried everything.
It wasn't until he went to his
dentist, and his dentist said,
Jason, I think those mercury
amalgam fillings in your mouth
are leaking into your body.
And I think it is causing
all of this trauma.
You need to find a way to get
the mercury out of your body.
And I think I can help.
He said, I've been reading
about a technology that
has been studied extensively
in Asia called infrared.
An infrared has the
possibility of removing mercury
from your body.
I think you should explore it.
So that's exactly
what my brother did.
He bought an infrared sauna.
Started the process.
It was very slow.
But let me tell you.
I remember one day when I
went over to his apartment,
and I saw him up
moving around, and it
was glorious because I
hadn't seen him moving.
We stopped all vacations.
It was horrible for our family.
And I said, Jason,
how are you doing?
He's like, I feel a
little bit better.
But just him moving was magic.
So he kept doing it daily, and
eventually, it changed his life.
When you're in a stressful
situation like this,
you could never even imagine
that something so stressful
could have such a positive
ripple impact on your life
and others.
So I was watching this
transformation of my brother.
And at the time, I was
working at Procter & Gamble
in the pharmaceutical
division-- and I loved my job.
And I loved pharmaceuticals
because my mission
was to help people live
healthier lives through what
I did.
I wanted to make a difference.
It was my entire being
was to make a difference.
And I thought I was
doing that because I
was in the
gastrointestinal field,
I was in Crohn's and
Colitis Foundation.
I was working in the
cardiovascular division
with blood pressure medications.
And I was still so amazed with
how my brother did something
on his own safely, not
adversely affecting his body
whatsoever because that's
what we worry about
in the pharmaceutical,
but he was
able to safely,
naturally heal himself.
Amazing.
So I thought, OK, I've
never heard of this.
So I'm going to
do some research.
So I said on my journey to do
extensive research on infrared.
Astounded-- remember,
this is 25 years ago--
astounded at what I found.
I thought I would find nothing.
No, there was so many clinical
trials done in Asia on infrared,
specifically in the
cardiovascular arena.
For example, it helped
improve blood flow.
It helped endothelial lining
get more oxygen to the heart.
It helped with
congestive heart failure.
It helped with coronary
artery disease.
It helped so many things.
I'm like, what in the
world is going on.
Why is nobody talking
about this amazing thing,
and really doing it in the
safety of your own home
without altering your body?
So I changed my life, and I left
my safe, comfortable, rewarding
career at Procter &
Gamble and started
on this entrepreneurial journey.
And as I describe it,
I jumped out of a plane
without a parachute or plan B.
But I really wanted to
get the word out and let
people know about this powerful
healing wavelength called
infrared.
So what is it, anyway?
And can it help me?
Can it help you?
So what is it?
Infrared is the
light, the healing
and healthy part
of the light coming
from the sun that is natural
and safe for all living things.
It is needed.
Infrared light constitutes
about 60% of the sunlight.
So you know when you go
outside, and the sun comes out,
and you feel that and you just
feel this gentle hug around you,
you're like, oh my God,
that feels so good.
That's infrared.
That's that feeling.
It feels so good.
And we need it to survive.
So infrared is heat.
It heats up the body directly
without heating the air.
So you get hot inside
because your body
is hot through this magical
absorption of the heat.
It's light.
Our bodies are solar panels.
We are designed and need
infrared light to charge
and activate our cells inside.
60% is water, 10% mitochondria.
So over 70% of your
body, our bodies
need that activation
in order to initiate
the biochemical pathways
to affect and impact
every single system in our body.
Infrared constitutes a spectrum
of light far, mid, and near--
is the spectrum
near is also known
as photobiomodulation or PBM.
Each one of those pieces has
magical healing transformative
properties that
can significantly
impact your well-being.
So I love science.
So I'm just going to
go for just a second
into some scientific studies on
a couple of different conditions
just to validate that it's
more than just the sun
and how it works with your body.
So first, inflammation.
Inflammation, also known as
inflammaging because it is
the number one cause for aging.
And there are plenty
of studies showing
how infrared can help slow
down the aging process
and how it can regulate
your inflammatory systems.
For example, one study
was done on a gene that
is in charge-- it's called HO1.
It's in charge of regulating
all of your inflammation.
And infrared helps to
activate that gene.
Detoxification.
This is a big one.
We're exposed to over 700,000
chemicals every single day.
Infrared heats
your body directly,
increases your core
temperature, and you sweat out
at a cellular level.
So you're sweating out deeper
than any other type of sweat.
There's been plenty of studies
showing that infrared will
reduce your toxic load
by removing heavy metals,
bismuth, PCBs more than
traditional saunas,
as well as exercise.
There is a study
called the BUS study--
Blood, Urine, Sweat
study that showed
that 15% of the participants had
no detectable levels of mercury
in their blood.
However, 100% of that 15%
had high levels of mercury
in their sweat.
So the power and the
necessity of using
infrared to sweat out this toxic
load that we live in every day
is crucial.
Other benefits that can help
you ignite your path to wellness
are improved sleep--
so important.
Decreased depression-- plenty of
studies on that improved health
and cognitive function.
Decreased ability
to-- just decrease
cortisol and stress, overall
relaxation, weight loss,
and then probably my
personal favorite is just
skin purification and really
helping improve the collagen
and elastin in your skin.
So there have been many
people over the past 25 years
where infrared has had
a significant impact
on their life.
One of which you may know--
I actually have two.
The first one is Ryan Sutter,
who's right here in Colorado.
So 20 years ago, a lot
of people fell in love
with the first couple
that got married
on the first Bachelorette show.
And Ryan interestingly
enough never
shared this story
for a long time,
but now he is coming out
and sharing because he knows
that his story can help others.
So Ryan and Trista got
married, moved to Colorado,
started a family.
They were really focused
on a healthy active life.
And they had that
until Ryan was about 45
and he changed his career to a
different firefighter station
and started this 18-week
firefighting academy.
Halfway through, he
started feeling horrible.
And he's an athlete,
so he persevered,
and he kept thinking,
I think this
is just due to the training.
And he kept going and
going until he was so
compromised that he could
not get off the couch.
Well, clearly, he and Trista
said, we've got to do something.
We've got to change something.
So they went on this
journey to figure
it out struggled
tremendously until they
found a local functional
medicine here in Colorado.
And she did test
specifically on Lyme.
And he tested positive for
Lyme disease, mold toxicities,
and some other
underlying infections.
And then she helped him get
on the path to recovery.
The three things that helped
him get active and healthy
again were nutrition,
mindfulness, and infrared sauna
sessions.
And the infrared sauna
session specifically
helped him with detoxification
of all the stuff
that was in his body, as well
as it activates your heat shock
proteins.
So it strengthened
his immune system.
So it could allow him to be
able to fight off viruses
when it would happen again.
So LeAnn Rimes--
she is another one
that I love her
story because it's
different from what
I've just shared
about being in a situation
where you need treatment.
She put the power in her
control and sought out help.
So let me give you
a little back story.
We all know who she is.
She has been famous since
she was 14 years old when
she won her first Grammy.
And as she describes her
story, she, from 14 to 40,
was in a constant state
of fight or flight--
constantly in that sympathetic
state where she was stressed out
all the time.
She suffered from anxiety.
She suffered from depression.
She was just in a
really bad place.
And so when she was about
to turn 40, she decided,
you know what, I'm not
going to do that anymore.
I need to find a better way.
So she sought out Dr.
Mindy Pelz, physician,
who helped her understand the
balancing of your hormones
as she approached menopause.
And really, helped her lay the
foundation how to move forward.
One of the key foundations
she told LeAnn is you
have got to get yourself into
the parasympathetic state.
You have got to find a way to
relieve the stress and unwind.
And one of the ways she
recommended was infrared sauna.
And I love when LeAnn describes
this because she says it
literally she suffers so badly
with anxiety and depression,
and she's like I would
go inside my sauna
and I could feel the
happy chemicals is just
being released.
And I would have days where I
felt like the world was going
to end, but then I
would go inside my sauna
and I would come out in a
completely different place.
She calls it her
box of happiness.
So how can infrared help you?
It can help you light
your path to wellness.
It could be an extreme recovery
like my brother's story,
it could be a proactive
way like LeAnn story,
or it could be if you have
a very specific condition
that you're trying to treat such
as inflammation, detoxification,
brain function, helping
you do better sleep,
helping you lose weight,
or just overall feeling
better like you want to do
more of what you love to do.
So what I would love
is to hear your story.
I strongly feel that if we can
collectively share our wellness
experiences, we
can raise the tide
and elevate all of our
wellness path together.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
[AUDIO LOGO]